<!-- LANG:EN, title="How to contribute"-->

For any question on any of those, feel welcome to ask in any of our '''[[Communication channels|communication channels]]'''!

== For everyone ==

* help to improve '''[[Data|books data]]''' (no technical skills required), both:
** in Inventaire: on any book's page, click the pencil (should be somewhere on the top right) to display the data editor
** in Wikidata:
*** find the missing data for [http://tools.wmflabs.org/wikidata-game/#mode=no_author books without author]
* look for cards on the [https://trello.com/b/0lKcsZDj/inventaire-roadmap roadmap board] with the tag '''Doable by new contributors''' (pink tag):
** [https://trello.com/c/Ny3dfpkJ/97-take-a-great-picture-with-books-to-renew-the-homepage-background take a great picture with books to renew the homepage background]
** [[Tutorials|write or translate tutorials on how to use the different features]]
** [https://trello.com/c/EexK1Uve/98-organize-a-user-meeting-in-your-city organize a user meeting in your city]
* '''translate''' inventaire in a new language or help improving an existing translation: everything is done from our [https://www.transifex.com/inventaire/inventaire/ Transifex page]. New translations are needed periodically, you are thus invited to [http://maxlath.eu/projects/time-capsule/ create a time capsule to re-open Transifex once a month] to keep your language translation up-to-date.
* '''spread the word'''!
** [https://inventaire.io/network/friends invite friends to join by email]
** share on social networks
** help to reach people who might be interested in using it: you know a blog about books or openknowledge, maybe they would be interested in talking about inventaire!
* give '''feedback''' on what works and what doesn't, either by commenting a card on the [https://trello.com/b/0lKcsZDj/inventaire-roadmap roadmap board] or by sending an email at [mailto:hello@inventaire.io hello@inventaire.io]
* help '''designing inventaire''' by upvoting feature cards on this board, commenting or creating new ones: don't be afraid, you can't break anything (well, unless you aim for it, don't take it as a challenge ;) )

== For Data lovers ==

[[Roles and access levels|Data admins]] are special users who can contribute to Inventaire's bibliographical data in depth. They have the ability to perform more actions (ie. merging entities) than other authentified users.

If you would like to become a data admin, contact us via any [[Communication_channels|communication channels available]]. As this decision is discretionary to admins, please provide some information on what specific problems you would like to adress by becoming a data admin. Also if you could point us to any contributions you've made which help us determine if you've understood enough inventaire's [[Data|data model]] (ie. difference works/editions, author duplications) to become a data admin.

== Technical tasks ==

* [https://github.com/inventaire/inventaire/wiki#new-contributors help with '''code on Inventaire''']
* [https://github.com/inventaire/inventaire/wiki/wishlist help with '''code on external tools and projects''']

