<!-- LANG:EN, title="Privacy"-->

This article tries to make clear and understandable how Inventaire gather information about you and what is done with it. Because here like everywhere on the web, you've got to ask yourself one question :

== Who owns my data ? ==

=== Short answer ===

you

=== Longer answer ===

Inventaire is a tool that helps you to build data about yourself (user profile), the books you own (inventory), your social network (friends &amp; groups). That's a lot of personal data, but the tool could not work without it. While we generate and host those data, you remain the only owner of those:

* You have the right to access all your data (See [https://inventaire.io/settings/data data exports] and the [https://api.inventaire.io API])
* You have the right to delete your data, without any delay
* No private data will be shared with any third-party

Exceptions to the points above:

* After your deleted your account, Inventaire keeps the bare minimum required for transactions with other users to still make sense, and to keep the history of edits on bibliographic data (entity patches). This bare minimum is a user id associated with a username.

We will never sell your data to anyone. Like you, we are readers and we know how your books can precisely describe yourself. We even integrated this non data selling policy into our [[Statuses|association statuses]].

== Information about you ==

When you use the application, Inventaire might collect :

* Basic profile information such as a username (which can totally be a pseudonyme), email, language, profile picture
* Geolocation is only possible in the [https://inventaire.io/settings/profile user settings page] as an approximative geo point
* Messages in [https://inventaire.io/transactions transactions] from and to other users

== Analytics ==

We use [https://matomo.org Matomo] (ex-Piwik) to have some basic metrics about the general activity, which gather information such as IP adress, location, browser details. This service is hosted by our friends at [https://allmende.io allmende.io].

== GDPR ==

We complied to most of the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation GDPR] before it was cool, by giving users access to their data and not sharing those with third party. This policy isn't limited to users in the European Union.

Our servers are located in the European Union, so, as far as we know, we are not subject to the USA Patriot Act.

=== Cookies ===

We currently⁽²⁰²⁰⁻⁰⁶⁻¹²⁾use 2 types of cookies:

* Session cookies: those are first-party cookies strictly necessary to be able to provide the service
* [[#analytics|Analytics]] cookies: those are third-party statistics cookies, that we should get rid of at some point. In the meantime, you can block those by intalling a tracker-blocker such as uBlock Origin ([https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/ firefox], [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm?hl=fr chrome])

<!-- LANG:FR, title="Vie privée"-->

Cet article vise à éclairer la collecteet le traitement des informations personnelles dans Inventaire. Car ici comme ailleurs sur le web, la question se pose :

== Qui détient mes données ? ==

=== Réponse courte ===

vous

=== Réponse plus longue ===

Inventaire est un outil vous aidant à collecter un ensemble de donnée à propos de vous (profil utilisateur), de vos livres (inventaire), de votre réseau social (amis et groupes). Cela fait beaucoup de données personnels, mais on ne peut pas vraiment faire sans. Le fait que nous générions et hébergions ces données n'enlève rien au fait que vous restez le seul propriétaire de celles-ci :

* Vous avez le droit d'accéder à votre données (Voir les outils d'[https://inventaire.io/settings/data exports de données] et l'[https://api.inventaire.io API])
* Vous avez le droit de supprimer vos données
* Aucune de vos données privées ne sera partagé avec des organisations tierces.

Exceptions aux points ci-dessus :

* Lors de la suppression de votre compte, Inventaire conserve le strict minimum requis pour que les transactions avec les autres utilisateurs facent encore sens, ainsi que pour garder un historique des modifications de données bibliographiques (patches d'entité). Ce minimum est constitué d'un identifiant d'utilisateur associé à un nom d'utilisateur.

Nous ne vendrons jamais aucune données sur vous, jamais. Comme vous, nous sommes des lecteurs et nous savons au combien vos livres peuvent vous décrire. Nous avons même inséré l'interdiction revente des données personnelles dans les [[Association|statuts de l'association]] à l'Article 8.

== Les informations vous concernant ==

Lorsque vous utilisez inventaire.io en tant qu'utilisateur, le serveur peut collecter les données suivantes :

* les informations de votre profil utilisateur comme votre nom d'utilisateur (qui peut être un pseudo), un email, une langue, optionelement une image de profile
* la géolocalisation approximative d'un lieu via votre page de profil
* les messages de vos [https://inventaire.io/transactions transactions] vers et depuis d'autres utilisateurs

== Analytics ==

Nous utilisons [https://matomo.org Matomo] (ex-Piwik) qui récupère des informations tel qu'une adresse IP, les détails à propos du navigateur etc. Ce service est hébergé par nos amis d'[https://allmende.io allmende.io].

== RGPD ==

Dans les grandes lignes, nous étions prêt pour la [https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%A8glement_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9ral_sur_la_protection_des_donn%C3%A9es RGPD] avant même son existance, en donnant accès aux utilisateurs à leurs données, et en ne partagant pas celles-ci. Cette politique n'est pas limité aux seuls utilisateurs de l'Union Européenne.

Nos serveurs sont situés dans l'Union européenne, et ne sont, a priori, pas affecté par les lois états-uniennes tel le Patriot Act.

=== Cookies ===

Nous utilisons actuellement⁽²⁰²⁰⁻⁰⁶⁻¹²⁾2 types de cookies :

* Des cookies de session : ceux-ci sont des cookies interne, strictement nécessaire aux fonctionnement, et donc [https://www.cnil.fr/fr/cookies-comment-mettre-mon-site-web-en-conformite exemptés de demande de consentement]
* cookies d'[[#analytics|analytics]]: ceux-ci sont des cookies tiers, dont nous comptons nous débarasser à terme. En attendant, vous pouvez les bloquez en installant un bloqueur de tracker tel que uBlock Origin ([https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/ firefox], [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm?hl=fr chrome])

